README.md, before:

<p align="center">
<img src="https://uploads-ssl.webflow.com/62dfa8e3960a6e2b47dc7fae/62fdf9cef684e6f16158b094_MARQO%20LOGO-UPDATED-GREEN.svg" width="90%" height="80%">
</p>

<p align="center">
<b><a href="https://marqo.ai">Website</a> | <a href="https://docs.marqo.ai">Documentation</a> | <a href="https://demo.marqo.ai">Demos</a>  | <a href="https://join.slack.com/t/marqo-community/shared_invite/zt-1d737l76e-u~b3Rvey2IN2nGM4wyr44w">Slack Community</a> | <a href="https://q78175g1wwa.typeform.com/to/d0PEuRPC">Marqo Cloud</a>
</b>
</p>

<p align="center">
<a href="https://opensource.org/licenses/Apache-2.0"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache%202.0-blue.svg"></a>
<a href="https://pypi.org/project/marqo/"><img src="https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/marqo?label=PyPI"></a>
<a href="https://github.com/marqo-ai/marqo/actions/workflows/unit_test_CI.yml"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/marqo-ai/marqo/unit_test_CI.yml?branch=mainline"></a>
<a href="https://pepy.tech/project/marqo"><img alt="PyPI - Downloads from pepy" src="https://static.pepy.tech/personalized-badge/marqo?period=month&units=international_system&left_color=grey&right_color=blue&left_text=downloads/month"></a>
<a align="center" href="https://join.slack.com/t/marqo-community/shared_invite/zt-1d737l76e-u~b3Rvey2IN2nGM4wyr44w"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Slack-blueviolet?logo=slack&amp;logoColor=white"></a>
</p>

<p align="center">
A tensor-based search and analytics engine that seamlessly integrates with applications and websites. Marqo allows developers to turbocharge search functionality with the latest machine learning models, in 3 lines of code.
</p>
    
<p align="center">
    <a href="https://demo.marqo.ai/?q=smiling+with+glasses&index=boredapes"><img src="assets/demo-short.gif"></a>
</p>
 
<p align="center">
    <b>    
    <a href="https://demo.marqo.ai">Try the demo</a> | <a href="https://github.com/marqo-ai/marqo-demo">View the code</a>
    </b>
</p>





## ✨ Core Features
**⚡ Performance**
- Embeddings stored in in-memory HNSW indexes, achieving cutting edge search speeds.
- Scale to hundred-million document indexes with horizontal index sharding.
- Async and non-blocking data upload and search.

**🤖 Machine Learning**
- Use the latest machine learning models from PyTorch, Huggingface, OpenAI and more. 
- Start with a pre-configured model or bring your own.
- Built in ONNX support and conversion for faster inference and higher throughput.
- CPU and GPU support.

**☁️ Cloud-native**
- Fast deployment using Docker.
- Run Marqo multi-az and high availability.

**🌌 End-to-end**
- Build search and analytics on multiple unstructured data types such as text, image, code, video.
- Filter search results using Marqo’s query DSL.
- Store unstructred data and semi-structured metadata together in documents, using a range of supported datatypes like bools, ints and keywords.

**🍱 Managed cloud**
- Scale Marqo at the click of a button.
- Multi-az, accelerated inference.
- Marqo cloud ☁️ is in beta. If you’re interested, [apply here](https://q78175g1wwa.typeform.com/to/d0PEuRPC).

<p align="center">
    <a href="https://q78175g1wwa.typeform.com/to/d0PEuRPC"><img src="assets/join-the-cloud-beta.png" width="90%" height="20%"/></a>
</p>

## Learn more about Marqo
                                                                                                                                                       
|                                                                                               |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 📗 [Quick start](#Getting-started)                                             | Build your first application with Marqo in under 5 minutes.                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| 🔍 [ What is tensor search?](https://medium.com/@jesse_894/introducing-marqo-build-cloud-native-tensor-search-applications-in-minutes-9cb9a05a1736) | A beginner's guide to the fundamentals of Marqo and tensor search.                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| 🖼 [Marqo for image data](https://medium.com/@wanli19940222/how-to-implement-text-to-image-search-on-marqo-in-5-lines-of-code-448f75bed1da)      | Building text-to-image search in Marqo in 5 lines of code.                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| 📚 [Marqo for text](https://medium.com/@pandu_95301/how-i-used-marqo-to-create-a-multilingual-legal-database-in-5-key-lines-of-code-42ba49fd0caa)           | Building a multilingual database in Marqo.                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| 🔮 [Integrating Marqo with GPT](https://medium.com/creator-fund/building-search-engines-that-think-like-humans-e019e6fb6389)             | Making GPT a subject matter expert by using Marqo as a knowledge base.                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| 🎨 [ Marqo for Creative AI](https://medium.com/@jesse_894/combining-stable-diffusion-with-semantic-search-generating-and-categorising-100k-hot-dogs-afeeddea9d81)                             | Combining stable diffusion with semantic search to generate and categorise 100k images of hotdogs.                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| 🦾 [Features](#-Core-Features)                           | Marqo's core features.                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |





## Getting started


1. Marqo requires docker. To install Docker go to the [Docker Official website](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/). Ensure that docker has at least 8GB memory and 50GB storage.

2. Use docker to run Marqo (Mac users with M-series chips will need to [go here](#m-series-mac-users)):

```bash

docker rm -f marqo
docker pull marqoai/marqo:latest
docker run --name marqo -it --privileged -p 8882:8882 --add-host host.docker.internal:host-gateway marqoai/marqo:latest

```

3. Install the Marqo client:

```bash
pip install marqo
```

4. Start indexing and searching! Let's look at a simple example below:

```python
import marqo

mq = marqo.Client(url='http://localhost:8882')

mq.index("my-first-index").add_documents([
    {
        "Title": "The Travels of Marco Polo",
        "Description": "A 13th-century travelogue describing Polo's travels"
    }, 
    {
        "Title": "Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU)",
        "Description": "The EMU is a spacesuit that provides environmental protection, "
                       "mobility, life support, and communications for astronauts",
        "_id": "article_591"
    }]
)

results = mq.index("my-first-index").search(
    q="What is the best outfit to wear on the moon?", searchable_attributes=["Title", "Description"]
)

```

- `mq` is the client that wraps the `marqo` API
- `add_documents()` takes a list of documents, represented as python dicts for indexing.
- `add_documents()` creates an index with default settings, if one does not already exist.
- You can optionally set a document's ID with the special `_id` field. Otherwise, Marqo will generate one.
- If the index doesn't exist, Marqo will create it. If it exists then Marqo will add the documents to the index.

Let's have a look at the results:

```python
# let's print out the results:
import pprint
pprint.pprint(results)

{
    'hits': [
        {   
            'Title': 'Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU)',
            'Description': 'The EMU is a spacesuit that provides environmental protection, mobility, life support, and' 
                           'communications for astronauts',
            '_highlights': {
                'Description': 'The EMU is a spacesuit that provides environmental protection, '
                               'mobility, life support, and communications for astronauts'
            },
            '_id': 'article_591',
            '_score': 0.61938936
        }, 
        {   
            'Title': 'The Travels of Marco Polo',
            'Description': "A 13th-century travelogue describing Polo's travels",
            '_highlights': {'Title': 'The Travels of Marco Polo'},
            '_id': 'e00d1a8d-894c-41a1-8e3b-d8b2a8fce12a',
            '_score': 0.60237324
        }
    ],
    'limit': 10,
    'processingTimeMs': 49,
    'query': 'What is the best outfit to wear on the moon?'
}
```

- Each hit corresponds to a document that matched the search query.
- They are ordered from most to least matching.
- `limit` is the maximum number of hits to be returned. This can be set as a parameter during search.
- Each hit has a `_highlights` field. This was the part of the document that matched the query the best.

## Other basic operations

### Get document

Retrieve a document by ID.

```python

result = mq.index("my-first-index").get_document(document_id="article_591")

```

Note that by adding the document using ```add_documents``` again using the same ```_id``` will cause a document to be updated.

### Get index stats

Get information about an index.

```python

results = mq.index("my-first-index").get_stats()

```

### Lexical search

Perform a keyword search.

```python

result = mq.index("my-first-index").search('marco polo', search_method=marqo.SearchMethods.LEXICAL)

```

### Search specific fields

Using the default tensor search method.

```python

result = mq.index("my-first-index").search('adventure', searchable_attributes=['Title'])

```

### Delete documents

Delete documents.

```python

results = mq.index("my-first-index").delete_documents(ids=["article_591", "article_602"])

```

### Delete index

Delete an index.

```python

results = mq.index("my-first-index").delete()

```

## Multi modal and cross modal search

To power image and text search, Marqo allows users to plug and play with CLIP models from HuggingFace. **Note that if you do not configure multi modal search, image urls will be treated as strings.** To start indexing and searching with images, first create an index with a CLIP configuration, as below:

```python

settings = {
  "treat_urls_and_pointers_as_images":True,   # allows us to find an image file and index it 
  "model":"ViT-L/14"
}
response = mq.create_index("my-multimodal-index", **settings)

```

Images can then be added within documents as follows. You can use urls from the internet (for example S3) or from the disk of the machine:

```python

response = mq.index("my-multimodal-index").add_documents([{
    "My Image": "https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/f/f2/Portrait_Hippopotamus_in_the_water.jpg/440px-Portrait_Hippopotamus_in_the_water.jpg",
    "Description": "The hippopotamus, also called the common hippopotamus or river hippopotamus, is a large semiaquatic mammal native to sub-Saharan Africa",
    "_id": "hippo-facts"
}])

```

 Setting `searchable_attributes` to the image field `['My Image'] ` ensures only images are searched in this index:

```python

results = mq.index("my-multimodal-index").search('animal',  searchable_attributes=['My Image'])

```


You can then search using text as usual. Both text and image fields will be searched:

```python

results = mq.index("my-multimodal-index").search('animal')

```

Setting `searchable_attributes` to the image field `['My Image'] ` ensures only images are searched in this index:

```python

results = mq.index("my-multimodal-index").search('animal', searchable_attributes=['My Image'])

```

### Searching using an image

Searching using an image can be achieved by providing the image link.

```python

results = mq.index("my-multimodal-index").search('https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/9/96/Standing_Hippopotamus_MET_DP248993.jpg/440px-Standing_Hippopotamus_MET_DP248993.jpg')

```

## Documentation

The full documentation for Marqo can be found here [https://docs.marqo.ai/](https://docs.marqo.ai/).

## Warning

Note that you should not run other applications on Marqo's Opensearch cluster as Marqo automatically changes and adapts the settings on the cluster.

## M series Mac users

Marqo does not yet support the docker-in-docker backend configuration for the arm64 architecture. This means that if you have an M series Mac, you will also need to run marqo's backend, marqo-os, locally.

To run Marqo on an M series Mac, follow the next steps.

1. In one terminal run the following command to start opensearch:

```shell
docker rm -f marqo-os; docker run -p 9200:9200 -p 9600:9600 -e "discovery.type=single-node" marqoai/marqo-os:0.0.3-arm
```

2. In another terminal run the following command to launch Marqo:

```shell
docker rm -f marqo; docker run --name marqo --privileged \
    -p 8882:8882 --add-host host.docker.internal:host-gateway \
    -e "OPENSEARCH_URL=https://localhost:9200" \
    marqoai/marqo:latest
```


## Contributors

Marqo is a community project with the goal of making tensor search accessible to the wider developer community. We are glad that you are interested in helping out! Please read [this](./CONTRIBUTING.md) to get started.

## Dev set up

1. Create a virtual env ```python -m venv ./venv```.

2. Activate the virtual environment ```source ./venv/bin/activate```.

3. Install requirements from the requirements file: ```pip install -r requirements.txt```.

4. Run tests by running the tox file. CD into this dir and then run "tox".

5. If you update dependencies, make sure to delete the .tox dir and rerun.

## Merge instructions:

1. Run the full test suite (by using the command `tox` in this dir).

2. Create a pull request with an attached github issue.

## Support

- Join our [Slack community](https://join.slack.com/t/marqo-community/shared_invite/zt-1d737l76e-u~b3Rvey2IN2nGM4wyr44w) and chat with other community members about ideas.
- Marqo community meetings (coming soon!).

### Stargazers

[![Stargazers repo roster for @marqo-ai/marqo](https://reporoster.com/stars/marqo-ai/marqo)](https://github.com/marqo-ai/marqo/stargazers).

### Forkers

[![Forkers repo roster for @marqo-ai/marqo](https://reporoster.com/forks/marqo-ai/marqo)](https://github.com/marqo-ai/marqo/network/members).

## Translations

This readme is available in the following translations:

- [English](README.md)🇬🇧
- [Français](README-translated/README-French.md)🇫🇷
- [中文 Chinese](README-translated/README-Chinese.md)🇨🇳
- [Polski](README-translated/README-Polish.md)🇵🇱
- [Українська](README-translated/README-Ukrainian.md)🇺🇦

Commit message:

Adding instruction to start marqo-os (#371)
ensuring that the dev setup tells users to start marqo-os before running tox.

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
<img src="https://uploads-ssl.webflow.com/62dfa8e3960a6e2b47dc7fae/62fdf9cef684e6f16158b094_MARQO%20LOGO-UPDATED-GREEN.svg" width="90%" height="80%">
</p>

<p align="center">
<b><a href="https://marqo.ai">Website</a> | <a href="https://docs.marqo.ai">Documentation</a> | <a href="https://demo.marqo.ai">Demos</a>  | <a href="https://join.slack.com/t/marqo-community/shared_invite/zt-1d737l76e-u~b3Rvey2IN2nGM4wyr44w">Slack Community</a> | <a href="https://q78175g1wwa.typeform.com/to/d0PEuRPC">Marqo Cloud</a>
</b>
</p>

<p align="center">
<a href="https://opensource.org/licenses/Apache-2.0"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache%202.0-blue.svg"></a>
<a href="https://pypi.org/project/marqo/"><img src="https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/marqo?label=PyPI"></a>
<a href="https://github.com/marqo-ai/marqo/actions/workflows/unit_test_CI.yml"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/marqo-ai/marqo/unit_test_CI.yml?branch=mainline"></a>
<a href="https://pepy.tech/project/marqo"><img alt="PyPI - Downloads from pepy" src="https://static.pepy.tech/personalized-badge/marqo?period=month&units=international_system&left_color=grey&right_color=blue&left_text=downloads/month"></a>
<a align="center" href="https://join.slack.com/t/marqo-community/shared_invite/zt-1d737l76e-u~b3Rvey2IN2nGM4wyr44w"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Slack-blueviolet?logo=slack&amp;logoColor=white"></a>
</p>

<p align="center">
A tensor-based search and analytics engine that seamlessly integrates with applications and websites. Marqo allows developers to turbocharge search functionality with the latest machine learning models, in 3 lines of code.
</p>
    
<p align="center">
    <a href="https://demo.marqo.ai/?q=smiling+with+glasses&index=boredapes"><img src="assets/demo-short.gif"></a>
</p>
 
<p align="center">
    <b>    
    <a href="https://demo.marqo.ai">Try the demo</a> | <a href="https://github.com/marqo-ai/marqo-demo">View the code</a>
    </b>
</p>





## ✨ Core Features
**⚡ Performance**
- Embeddings stored in in-memory HNSW indexes, achieving cutting edge search speeds.
- Scale to hundred-million document indexes with horizontal index sharding.
- Async and non-blocking data upload and search.

**🤖 Machine Learning**
- Use the latest machine learning models from PyTorch, Huggingface, OpenAI and more. 
- Start with a pre-configured model or bring your own.
- Built in ONNX support and conversion for faster inference and higher throughput.
- CPU and GPU support.

**☁️ Cloud-native**
- Fast deployment using Docker.
- Run Marqo multi-az and high availability.

**🌌 End-to-end**
- Build search and analytics on multiple unstructured data types such as text, image, code, video.
- Filter search results using Marqo’s query DSL.
- Store unstructred data and semi-structured metadata together in documents, using a range of supported datatypes like bools, ints and keywords.

**🍱 Managed cloud**
- Scale Marqo at the click of a button.
- Multi-az, accelerated inference.
- Marqo cloud ☁️ is in beta. If you’re interested, [apply here](https://q78175g1wwa.typeform.com/to/d0PEuRPC).

<p align="center">
    <a href="https://q78175g1wwa.typeform.com/to/d0PEuRPC"><img src="assets/join-the-cloud-beta.png" width="90%" height="20%"/></a>
</p>

## Learn more about Marqo
                                                                                                                                                       
|                                                                                               |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 📗 [Quick start](#Getting-started)                                             | Build your first application with Marqo in under 5 minutes.                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| 🔍 [ What is tensor search?](https://medium.com/@jesse_894/introducing-marqo-build-cloud-native-tensor-search-applications-in-minutes-9cb9a05a1736) | A beginner's guide to the fundamentals of Marqo and tensor search.                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| 🖼 [Marqo for image data](https://medium.com/@wanli19940222/how-to-implement-text-to-image-search-on-marqo-in-5-lines-of-code-448f75bed1da)      | Building text-to-image search in Marqo in 5 lines of code.                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| 📚 [Marqo for text](https://medium.com/@pandu_95301/how-i-used-marqo-to-create-a-multilingual-legal-database-in-5-key-lines-of-code-42ba49fd0caa)           | Building a multilingual database in Marqo.                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| 🔮 [Integrating Marqo with GPT](https://medium.com/creator-fund/building-search-engines-that-think-like-humans-e019e6fb6389)             | Making GPT a subject matter expert by using Marqo as a knowledge base.                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| 🎨 [ Marqo for Creative AI](https://medium.com/@jesse_894/combining-stable-diffusion-with-semantic-search-generating-and-categorising-100k-hot-dogs-afeeddea9d81)                             | Combining stable diffusion with semantic search to generate and categorise 100k images of hotdogs.                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| 🦾 [Features](#-Core-Features)                           | Marqo's core features.                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |





## Getting started


1. Marqo requires docker. To install Docker go to the [Docker Official website](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/). Ensure that docker has at least 8GB memory and 50GB storage.

2. Use docker to run Marqo (Mac users with M-series chips will need to [go here](#m-series-mac-users)):

```bash

docker rm -f marqo
docker pull marqoai/marqo:latest
docker run --name marqo -it --privileged -p 8882:8882 --add-host host.docker.internal:host-gateway marqoai/marqo:latest

```

3. Install the Marqo client:

```bash
pip install marqo
```

4. Start indexing and searching! Let's look at a simple example below:

```python
import marqo

mq = marqo.Client(url='http://localhost:8882')

mq.index("my-first-index").add_documents([
    {
        "Title": "The Travels of Marco Polo",
        "Description": "A 13th-century travelogue describing Polo's travels"
    }, 
    {
        "Title": "Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU)",
        "Description": "The EMU is a spacesuit that provides environmental protection, "
                       "mobility, life support, and communications for astronauts",
        "_id": "article_591"
    }]
)

results = mq.index("my-first-index").search(
    q="What is the best outfit to wear on the moon?", searchable_attributes=["Title", "Description"]
)

```

- `mq` is the client that wraps the `marqo` API
- `add_documents()` takes a list of documents, represented as python dicts for indexing.
- `add_documents()` creates an index with default settings, if one does not already exist.
- You can optionally set a document's ID with the special `_id` field. Otherwise, Marqo will generate one.
- If the index doesn't exist, Marqo will create it. If it exists then Marqo will add the documents to the index.

Let's have a look at the results:

```python
# let's print out the results:
import pprint
pprint.pprint(results)

{
    'hits': [
        {   
            'Title': 'Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU)',
            'Description': 'The EMU is a spacesuit that provides environmental protection, mobility, life support, and' 
                           'communications for astronauts',
            '_highlights': {
                'Description': 'The EMU is a spacesuit that provides environmental protection, '
                               'mobility, life support, and communications for astronauts'
            },
            '_id': 'article_591',
            '_score': 0.61938936
        }, 
        {   
            'Title': 'The Travels of Marco Polo',
            'Description': "A 13th-century travelogue describing Polo's travels",
            '_highlights': {'Title': 'The Travels of Marco Polo'},
            '_id': 'e00d1a8d-894c-41a1-8e3b-d8b2a8fce12a',
            '_score': 0.60237324
        }
    ],
    'limit': 10,
    'processingTimeMs': 49,
    'query': 'What is the best outfit to wear on the moon?'
}
```

- Each hit corresponds to a document that matched the search query.
- They are ordered from most to least matching.
- `limit` is the maximum number of hits to be returned. This can be set as a parameter during search.
- Each hit has a `_highlights` field. This was the part of the document that matched the query the best.

## Other basic operations

### Get document

Retrieve a document by ID.

```python

result = mq.index("my-first-index").get_document(document_id="article_591")

```

Note that by adding the document using ```add_documents``` again using the same ```_id``` will cause a document to be updated.

### Get index stats

Get information about an index.

```python

results = mq.index("my-first-index").get_stats()

```

### Lexical search

Perform a keyword search.

```python

result = mq.index("my-first-index").search('marco polo', search_method=marqo.SearchMethods.LEXICAL)

```

### Search specific fields

Using the default tensor search method.

```python

result = mq.index("my-first-index").search('adventure', searchable_attributes=['Title'])

```

### Delete documents

Delete documents.

```python

results = mq.index("my-first-index").delete_documents(ids=["article_591", "article_602"])

```

### Delete index

Delete an index.

```python

results = mq.index("my-first-index").delete()

```

## Multi modal and cross modal search

To power image and text search, Marqo allows users to plug and play with CLIP models from HuggingFace. **Note that if you do not configure multi modal search, image urls will be treated as strings.** To start indexing and searching with images, first create an index with a CLIP configuration, as below:

```python

settings = {
  "treat_urls_and_pointers_as_images":True,   # allows us to find an image file and index it 
  "model":"ViT-L/14"
}
response = mq.create_index("my-multimodal-index", **settings)

```

Images can then be added within documents as follows. You can use urls from the internet (for example S3) or from the disk of the machine:

```python

response = mq.index("my-multimodal-index").add_documents([{
    "My Image": "https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/f/f2/Portrait_Hippopotamus_in_the_water.jpg/440px-Portrait_Hippopotamus_in_the_water.jpg",
    "Description": "The hippopotamus, also called the common hippopotamus or river hippopotamus, is a large semiaquatic mammal native to sub-Saharan Africa",
    "_id": "hippo-facts"
}])

```

 Setting `searchable_attributes` to the image field `['My Image'] ` ensures only images are searched in this index:

```python

results = mq.index("my-multimodal-index").search('animal',  searchable_attributes=['My Image'])

```


You can then search using text as usual. Both text and image fields will be searched:

```python

results = mq.index("my-multimodal-index").search('animal')

```

Setting `searchable_attributes` to the image field `['My Image'] ` ensures only images are searched in this index:

```python

results = mq.index("my-multimodal-index").search('animal', searchable_attributes=['My Image'])

```

### Searching using an image

Searching using an image can be achieved by providing the image link.

```python

results = mq.index("my-multimodal-index").search('https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/9/96/Standing_Hippopotamus_MET_DP248993.jpg/440px-Standing_Hippopotamus_MET_DP248993.jpg')

```

## Documentation

The full documentation for Marqo can be found here [https://docs.marqo.ai/](https://docs.marqo.ai/).

## Warning

Note that you should not run other applications on Marqo's Opensearch cluster as Marqo automatically changes and adapts the settings on the cluster.

## M series Mac users

Marqo does not yet support the docker-in-docker backend configuration for the arm64 architecture. This means that if you have an M series Mac, you will also need to run marqo's backend, marqo-os, locally.

To run Marqo on an M series Mac, follow the next steps.

1. In one terminal run the following command to start opensearch:

```shell
docker rm -f marqo-os; docker run -p 9200:9200 -p 9600:9600 -e "discovery.type=single-node" marqoai/marqo-os:0.0.3-arm
```

2. In another terminal run the following command to launch Marqo:

```shell
docker rm -f marqo; docker run --name marqo --privileged \
    -p 8882:8882 --add-host host.docker.internal:host-gateway \
    -e "OPENSEARCH_URL=https://localhost:9200" \
    marqoai/marqo:latest
```


## Contributors

Marqo is a community project with the goal of making tensor search accessible to the wider developer community. We are glad that you are interested in helping out! Please read [this](./CONTRIBUTING.md) to get started.

## Dev set up

1. Create a virtual env ```python -m venv ./venv```.

2. Activate the virtual environment ```source ./venv/bin/activate```.

3. Install requirements from the requirements file: ```pip install -r requirements.txt```.

4. Ensure you have marqo-os running with `docker run -p 9200:9200 -p 9600:9600 -e "discovery.type=single-node" --name marqo-os marqoai/marqo-os:0.0.3`

5. Run tests by running the tox file. CD into this dir and then run "tox".

6. If you update dependencies, make sure to delete the .tox dir and rerun.

## Merge instructions:

1. Run the full test suite (by using the command `tox` in this dir).

2. Create a pull request with an attached github issue.

## Support

- Join our [Slack community](https://join.slack.com/t/marqo-community/shared_invite/zt-1d737l76e-u~b3Rvey2IN2nGM4wyr44w) and chat with other community members about ideas.
- Marqo community meetings (coming soon!).

### Stargazers

[![Stargazers repo roster for @marqo-ai/marqo](https://reporoster.com/stars/marqo-ai/marqo)](https://github.com/marqo-ai/marqo/stargazers).

### Forkers

[![Forkers repo roster for @marqo-ai/marqo](https://reporoster.com/forks/marqo-ai/marqo)](https://github.com/marqo-ai/marqo/network/members).

## Translations

This readme is available in the following translations:

- [English](README.md)🇬🇧
- [Français](README-translated/README-French.md)🇫🇷
- [中文 Chinese](README-translated/README-Chinese.md)🇨🇳
- [Polski](README-translated/README-Polish.md)🇵🇱
- [Українська](README-translated/README-Ukrainian.md)🇺🇦
